---
title: 'Release 5.0.2.00'
date: '2022-02-28'
versionNumber: '5.0.2.00'
description: ''
---

### ImageJ 1.53k
### Java 17

### Changes
- Color Processing
  - New Debayer mode that extracts 3 independent color stacks and a luminosity stack that sums all 4 pixels R, B, G, and G. In the G image, the two G pixels are averaged. Each image is ½ the size of the original in both X and Y.
  - Compositor now runs channels again, as in IJ 1.47
- Fit Optimizer
  - Standard data point cleaning (left-click on Clean) uses per-point photometric uncertainties to determine which points are removed from the dataset. This version adds support for model residual RMS cleaning by using shift-left-click on Clean, or a right-click on Clean (see Multi-Plot below).
- Multi-Plot
  - Output data binning is implemented (which is true binning). The previous “Bin Size” option is now labeled Input Average, which is how it is implemented before data processing. The output binning is done after all processing and does not affect the detrending or light curve fitting.
  - Added RMS cleaning using a shift-click or a right click on “Clean”
  - Alt-left-click on Clean now cleans based on photometric uncertainty outliers (for cleaning obscured/clouded images)
  - Fixed missing help files
  - Transit fit lock-up bug fix
  - Optimizer now works with “Use Transit Fit” disabled
- Multi-Aperture
  - Improved set-up panel layout
  - Fixed auto-radius not being carried forward when combined with Data Processor
  - Fixed auto-comp star suggestions to provide the N requested stars instead of N-1
- Astrometry
  - Fixed null pointer exception related to importing annotations from astrometry.net
- File Opener
  - Fixed file counting bug in import image sequence that was introduced in 5.0.1.3.
  - 16 bit integer images now open as 16 bit, rather than 32 bit images.
- File Import
  - Provides file size and number of files before opening.