---
title: 'Release 5.1.1.00'
date: '2022-08-11'
versionNumber: '5.1.1.00'
description: ''
---

### Includes
ImageJ 1.53k and Java 18


## New Features
- General
  -  On MacOS, “command Q” and toolbar menu item “Quit” now save the preferences to disk before AIJ closes.
- Multiplot
  - File menu now offers an option to produce an AAVSO variable star report (thank you Dennis Conti!) (see link on set-up panel for instructions)
  - Detrend columns with all NaNs are now flagged in the fitting panel if selected
  - Optimization now ignores all NaN columns (previsouly they caused an incorrect optimization)
  -  Fixed a detrend optimization bug caused by specific BIC initial condition.
  - Updating of comp star and detrend settings after optimization more efficient (only one table and/or plot update required after each optimization).
- FITS Handling
  - Fits files (except 3D fits files) can now be written in compressed FPACK (.fz) format (and optionally with gzip compression as well). Previously, only FPACK files could be opened.
  - AIJ now opens gzipped + fpacked fits files when named *.fz.gz.
  - Update nom.tam to 1.17.0 within annotate keyword support overlaid.
  - AIJ now removes NAXIS entry when a 3D fits stack has been opened and then saved as individual images
- FITS Header Editor
  -  Now allows keywords longer than 8 characters, although it violates FITS spec
- Seeing Profile Stack
  - Multi-plot save-all option now allows saving of the summary image as a png, and/or the full seeing stack as a multi-image gif.
  - New buttons under the seeing profile stack to save images as png or pdf, or the full stack as a multi-image pdf or gif.
- Aperture Settings
  - The option “Julian Date (J.D.-2400000)” has been renamed to “Time Stamps (JD_UTC, etc.)” since it controls multiple time stamps being written to the measurements table.

## Bug Fixes
- Multiaperture
  - Now saves target and ref star designations when finished so that the “Recall” button on the Reference Star panel will restore the initial settings (e.g. after a comp star optimization).
- Multiplot
  - The location of the seeing profile image stack that gets created when using a variable aperture is now recalled correctly from session to session.
- Fitting Panel
    - All light curves now updated after an optimization operation completes
- Data Processor
  - Fixed a problem where invalid path names in DP on a Mac could cause an exception and resulting in the file opener icons to be inoperable.