---
title: 'Release 5.1.0.00'
date: '2022-06-06'
versionNumber: '5.1.0.00'
description: ''
---

### Includes
ImageJ 1.53k and Java 18

# Changes
- Windows Display Scaling
  - Now supported with new AstroImageJ.exe launcher. To install the new launcher, either install the new installation package from the website, or update to 5.1.0.00 (or later) twice.
- General   
  - AIJ notifies user when a new released build is available upon startup.
  - Fixed image display maximization on multiple monitor systems.
  - New installs now default to allow up to 75% of physical system usage, but can still be overridden from Toolbar options setting as before.
  - Windows launcher will update as needed on windows systems.
  - Changed default measurements table file type to .tbl.
  - .tbl filetypes can now be set to open AIJ upon double-click (and .plotcfg if named with the same file prefix as the table file).
  - Fixed export of fractional fps AVI files
  - Added AIJ log file to capture stdout warnings and errors
- NEBcheck
  - Changed max length of data from 3,000 to 10,000 photometric samples.
- FITS reading/writing
  - Various new 3D FITS format reading supported (i.e. multi-image FITS files).
  - 3D FITS format writing support (i.e. multi-image FITS files).
  - Load image sequence now allows filtering on up to two fits header values.
  - Fixed opening of 64-bit floating point fits images as rounded 32-bit float images.
  - Allows opening of hanging HDUs generated by original FITS writer
  - Color Image Debayer Support
    1. Revised corrections to debayer pixel interpretations
    2. Renamed debayer options
    3. Support for 8 bit debayering
    4. Fixed debayer not opening on missing keyword
    5. Corrections to debayer pixel interpretations
  - Fixed bug that caused fits writer to not write current slice
- Multi-plot
  - Fixed but the caused the plot to not update under certain conditions when the comp star ensemble is changed in the Reference Star panel.
  - Fixed save data subset handling of long data column names.
  - Fixed output binning corner-case problem.
  - Fixed optimization bug where some threads remained open
  - Fix for radec export when Multi-Aperture has not been executed
  - Transit fitting bug corrected so that secondary transit location is not fitted with primary transit model
  - Cleaning and optimization now allowed with transit model disabled
- Multi-Aperture
  - Display panel layout has been changed to hopefully improve useability.
  - Tooltips have been added to each option (hoover the mouse over the option to read the detailed note – wiggle mouse left and right over note to retain onscreen).
  - Fixed variable aperture based on radial aperture usage (sometimes failed and defaulted to user settings)
  - In radial profile variable aperture, a stack of radial profile images is created.