---
title: 'Release 5.2.0.00'
date: '2022-12-07'
versionNumber: '5.2.0.00'
description: ''
---

### Includes
ImageJ 1.53k and Java 18


## New Features
- NEBcheck
  - Now supports sorting the best results from multiple AIJ runs using different aperture sizes and selected the best result from all apertures for the merged results. (Many, many thanks to Dennis Conti and Bob Massey of the AAVSO for designing, developing, and test this new significant feature.)
- FITS Writer
  - FPACK (.fz) compression temporarily reverted to lossless fpacking. The previous compression settings were too lossy. We will later revert to a compressed version that matches LCOGT compression.
- General
  -  It AstroImageJ.cfg does not exist, it is created when a memory change is specified in Toolbar > Edit > Options > Memory & Threads
- Data Processor
  - Bias, Dark, and Flat master files may now be compressed independent of the science files by using .fits, .fits,fz, .fits.gz, or .fits.fz.gz suffixes in the file name box.
- FITS Header Editor
  -  Provides a new “Track Slice” option that causes the editor contents to update when the slice displayed is changed in the stack.
- Astrometry
  - Now defaults to same compression format as the originally opened file.
  - Astrometry now overwrites initial image by default, event for compressed images, if auto-save is enabled. Different compression formats can be selected on the astrometry set-up panel instead.
  - Now offers option to save in compressed formats (FPACK and/or GZIP). Use must select the same format as the input files to overwrite the file on disk. A later improvement will allow AIJ to select the same settings as the input file by default.
  - Fix file writing that was defaulting all uncompressed fits files to .fits extension.
- Stack Combiner
  - Now creates new fits headers appropriate to the combined slices (contributed by Bill Tschumy)
- Multi-plot
  - A color “transparent” was added to allow plotting a transit model while suppressing the plot of the underlying data.
- Multi-aperture
  - Multi-aperture option “Auto Fixed apertures from multi-image T1 radial profiles” has an updated algorithm that results in a larger auto-radius.
  - Multi-aperture option “Auto Fixed apertures from multi-image T1 radial profiles” allows radial profile/WCS failures and continues to derive auto-aperture based on the remaining images.
  -  Multi-aperture option “Auto Fixed apertures from multi-image T1 radial profiles” now shows stack slider progressing when MA runs.
- Folder Opener
  - Now shows a warning if no images are available in the specified folder.
- Stack Aligner
  - Now respects the More Aperture Settings option that indicates that the first slice should be user as the starting slice, no matter what slice was showing when Stack Aligner was launched.
- FITS Reader
  - Now supports multiHDU images produced by Pixinsight
  - Now maintains full file suffixes, including compression type to allow saving to those compression formats by default.

## Bug Fixes
- FITS Writer
  - Fixed a bug that causes AIJ’s fpack written files to only be readable by AIJ.
- General
  - Fixed a null pointer error that was reported when a memory change was attempted and AstroImageg.cfg file existed.
- Multi-plot
  - Bug fix - Y-data panel missing values in GUI if Preferences >  “Open Y-data panel at startup” is not enabled, and then the Y-data panel is later opened.
- Multi-aperture
  - Fix a problem that caused the base aperture sizes to be changed when auto fixed and variable aperture modes were used.
  - Fixed an optimizer problem that occurred when the “Left Trim” option was used.
  - Fixed a memory leak problem that occurred with virtual stacks when combined with “use prev” and “ra/dec” settings.