---
title: 'Release 5.3.0.00'
date: '2023-12-18'
versionNumber: '5.3.0.00'
description: ''
---

### Includes
ImageJ 1.54h2 and Java 18


## New Features
- Signifigant new features
  - Introduces programmable plot titling from FITS headers, filenames, and measurements tables (see help in Multi-plot Main).
  - Introduces arrow symbols on plot to indicate when data points are off the plot (can be disabled in MP Main X and Y settings).
  - Introduces a new implementation of measurements table to speed processing and provide search/copy/paste/goto functions etc.
  - Corrected compressed FITS writing (FPACK) and added compression presets and custom compression setting capability.
  - Fixed Multi-Aperture and other settings panel number editing.
  - Update to ImageJ 1.54h2.
- General
  - 5.3.0.00: Added Option to allow disabling of beeps.
- Measurements Table
  - 5.2.1.01: New implementation of measurements table
    1. Provides much faster performance that will enable future development of new features that require larger measurements tables (e.g. multiple aperture sizes per run)
    2. Allows access to individual cells directly
    3. Provides column sorting (right-click on column header name, for example, right-click on JD_UTC to sort data according to time)
    4. Provides table filtering capability (e.g. select all saturated exposures when can then be deleted from the table and plot if desired)
    5. Provides table display sorting (left-click on column name) and filtering without updating the underlying table data and plot
    6. Provides column name filtering to show specific columns (e.g. JD_UTC|AIRMASS|rel_flux_T1 with regex enabled)
    7. Provides a column name “Go to” function to jump to a desired column name (and row if specified)
    8. Linearity and saturation warnings are now optionally flagged in individual table cells using yellow and red backgrounds, respective. The flags are on a per-aperture level.

## Bug Fixes
- General
  - 5.2.1.04: fixed erroneous error message when trying to close an image
  - 5.2.1.04: more macro bug fixes
  - 5.2.1.01: Fixed problem with double-click on measurements table to open into AIJ
- Measurements Table
  - 5.3.0.00: Fixed measurements table access null pointer exceptions (NPEs).
  - 5.2.1.03: Color label and slice columns cells when linearity or saturation flagged
  - 5.2.1.02: Fixed spacing of measurements table when font size is changed.
- Multi-aperture
    - 5.3.0.00: Fixed initialization of impact parameter (b) setting when loading plotcfgs from before the b setting was implemented.
    - 5.3.0.00: Provide for bulk setting of reference star changes and MT update.
    - 5.3.0.00: Fixed spline smoothing normalization to use division instead of subtraction
    - 5.2.1.02: Fixed erroneous beep after “Place Apertures” click.
    - 5.2.1.01: Fixed a bug that caused multi-aperture to not pick up the WCS solution if stating multi-aperture with a slice displayed that does not have a WCS solution, even if the first slice to be processed does have a WCS solution.
    - 5.2.1.01: Fixed a bug which caused the Multi-plot windows to open twice when a new measurements table is loaded.
- Data Processor
    - 5.2.1.01: Now properly handles fits.fz filetypes in the input fields.
    - 5.2.1.01: When multi-aperture is enabled as part of DP, the multi-aperture will change to “Use previous N apertures” after first image is processed.
- Multi-plot
    - 5.3.0.00: During data subset output, only flag MF if it the checkbox is eneabled.
    - 5.3.0.00: During data subset output, prepend ‘F’ to fraction timing columns.
    - 5.3.0.00 Transit model plot datapoint density changes according to zoom.
    - 5.3.0.00: Added plot title programmability (see help in Multi-plot Main).
    - 5.3.0.00: Plots can be resized by drag and drop of the plot edges.
    - 5.2.1.01: Fixed spine fit to fit new measurements table values if already enabled before multi-aperture run.
    - 5.2.1.01: When “Fixed apertures from multi images” mode is enabled, the slice indicator scroll bar now updates (the bug  happened with place apertures by RA/Dec selected).