---
title: 'Release 5.3.3.00'
date: '2024-03-24'
versionNumber: '5.3.3.00'
description: ''
---

### Includes
ImageJ 1.54h2 and Java 21


## New Features
- Improvements in phase-folding for TESS data analysis.
- Updated Java JRE for new installs to address security issue in Linux OS (requires fresh installer to update JRE).
- Measurements tables, and optionally associated plotcfg and apertures files can be saved in a single compressed fits table file to save space and simplify file management. However, the default is still to save to independent delimited text files that can be opened in standard spreadsheet and text editing programs.
- Transit models are now variably sampled which ensures at least three points in transit for very long TESS sequences, and improves model rendering time in general by reducing sampling when not needed for display purposes.
- AIJ now allows images of different sizes to be loaded into a stack by cropping or filling all subsequent images to be the size of the first image. A log message will be displayed to warn that cropping has been implemented. This feature is useful for processing survey images that may not all be of the same dimensions.
- All current Multi-aperture settings are now saved in .apertures files.
## Bug Fixes
- General
  - Fixed certain icons that didn’t render properly on Mac.
  - When dragging and dropping a folder of images on the AIJ Toolbar, the import image sequence panel can be bypassed by holding the Control Key while dragging (i.e. will open all images in the folder).
- Multi-aperture
  - Set-up panel now displays better on low resolution displays.
  - Removed an unintended pause before starting photometry run.
  - Fixed T1 aperture not showing in specific cases.
  - Fixed single step mode not allowing placement of apertures.
  - Fixed bug that allowed two multi-aperture runs to start while auto aperture measurements were running.
- Multi-plot
  - Fixed vMarker2 not updating when phased transit duration is updated.
  - Plot cursor x-coordinate now shows full time not just fractional time.
  - Fixed problems with transit fitting when model parameters are locked.
  - Added a zoom indicator to upper-left of plot when zoomed in.
  - Allow spline fitting masking of data using Left trim and Right Trim settings.
  - Improved plot rendering time by minimizing unnecessary duplication of calculations.
  - Plot zooming and panning performance significantly improved.
- Color image processing
  -  Fix virtual stack debayering problem caused by reading header value from wrong image slice.
