---
title: 'Release 5.4.0.00'
date: '2024-12-12'
versionNumber: '5.4.0.00'
description: ''
---

### Includes
ImageJ 1.54h2 and Java 23


## New Features
- (Beta) Multi-aperture “Freeform” apertures mode.
- Support of saving the measurements table, plotcfg, and apertures file all within a unified fits.fz table file that contains all three.
- Support of opening general fits table files, such as Kepler, TESS SPOC or QLP lightcurve files from MAST.
- Fits.fz measurements table saving.
- New MeasurementsTable math operations in table display.
- Columns of data in measurements table can now be fitted to curves.
- AAVSO Macro
  - Update AAVSO Exoplanet Format Macro to v7.7.
- Multi Aperture
  - (Beta) Multi-aperture “Freeform” apertures mode allows user-defined aperture shapes and supports centroiding and relative photometry via reference stars.
  - Autocomps now uses slider to select trade-off below proximity and brightness.
- FITS File handling
  - Fixed a problem with BJD timestamps for TESS TICA FFI images.
  - Updates to underlying FITS handling code (nom.tam.fits).
  - Fixed opening of some 3D fits images that opened as an incorrect number of images.
  - Add stack folder saving options.
  - Fix to open only SCI HDU in multi-HDU fits images.
- Linux Distribution
  - Update linux launch script to handle spaces in paths.
  - Fix logging window display for certain Linux distributions.
  - Fix image display for certain Linux distributions (double-buffering issue).
- Fitting Panels
  - Fit Panel data cleaning UI more explicit; thresholds for each mode started independently.
  - Changed transit fitter to use built-in ImageJ amoeba (Nelder–Mead) routine.
  - BIC is now calculated even with no transit model and no detrending.
  - Fixed a problem where deleting many table rows took a very long time.
- Measurements Table Display
  - Option added for filtering out rows with NaN, Inf, and Fin values.
  - Math can now be implemented on columns of data and to optionally produce new columns of data.
  - Added options to add and delete columns of data.
  - Row insertion and row label editing now supported.
  - Columns of data in measurements table can now fitted to curves.
- Astrometry
  - Updated timeouts to accommodate long queues at astrometry.net server.
  - Improved interactions with astrometry.net to improve per image solve time in some cases.
- Plotting
  - shows number of data points removed since measurements table creation
  - Use alt-left-drag in plot image to zoom. Roll mouse wheel to zoom in x and y. Scroll+Alt/Opt to zoom in y only. Scroll+Ctrl/Cmd to Zoom in x only. See new help button on plot for more options and details.

## Bug Fixes
- Fixed various exceptions and lockup modes.
- Various fixes to automatic plot titling.
- Bug fix to "Open plot configuration from file" now allows selected file to be opened.
