---
title: 'Release 6.0.0.00'
date: '2025-10-18'
versionNumber: '6.0.0.00'
description: ''
draft: false
---

### Includes
ImageJ 1.54m1 and Java 25

## General
- AIJ hosting, including website, update files, and installation packages, has moved to a github hosted implementation,
which is now accessed at astroimagej.com.
- The update process and user experience has changed to accomodate updating of all AIJ files, including the java runtime version,
and also provides higher security. The update process now implements a full new install package and may require additional
clicks and interaction from the user.
- Windows builds are now signed using a certificate from the SignPath organization.
- Updated Java to version 25.
- AIJ logs are now moved out of the installation folder and into a separate log folder.
  - Windows: `%LOCALAPPDATA%\AstroImageJ\Logs\aij.log`
  - Mac: `~/Library/Logs/AstroImageJ/aij.log`
  - Linux: `~/.local/state/astroiamgej/logs/aij.log`

## New Features

### Periodogram Support
  - Greg Srdoc has contributed a new module that provides Box Least Squares (BLS), Transit Least Sqaures (TLC), 
and Lomb-Scargle (L-S) periodograms from measurements table columns. To use the feature, create a measurements table
by running Multi-Aperture. If needed, detrend and/or smooth the lightcurve and save to a new column in the measurements
table using the "New Col" icon on the left-hand side of the Y-data panel. Then from Image Stack > Analyze,
choose "Periodogram Analysis...". BLS and TLS are useful for long time-baseline observations such as TESS or Kepler
space-based data. L-S periodograms search for sinusoidal components in time-series, so may be useful for analysis of
ground or space-based data.
### Image Display
  - `Image Display > Edit > Stack` (Stack Sorter) now supports virtual stacks.
### Coordinate Converter
  - The finder field button now links to the Swarthmore Aladin FOV tool. Various default settings can be changed at
`CC > Preferences > Edit Aladin Settings`.
### Multi-plot
  - In phase-folding sub-panel, added "Period Alias (P/N)" setting. This setting is used to quickly change the period set
in "Period (Days)" to Period/N. This setting is useful for assessing active aliases in TESS data with large observation gaps (e.g. duo transits).


## Bug Fixes

### General

- On Mac, fixed an error when displaying "About AstroImageJ".
### Multi-Aperture
  - Fixed bug in auto threshold min and max brightness values when auto is disabled.
  - Fixed bug in auto fixed apertures from multi-image T1 radial profiles option flux cutoff value.
  - Fixe bug in lock eccentricity and angle when use previous apertures is selected.
  - Fixed bug in elliptical apertures related to apparent magnitude values.
  - Fixed bug that caused tot_C_err, rel_flux_err, and rel_flux_SNR to not be calculated when "Use multiple threads for
photometry" is enabled.
### Image Display
- Fixed a bug with SIMBAD access when using the Harvard mirror site.
### Coordinate Converter
- Fixed a bug with SIMBAD access when using the Harvard mirror site.
- Added BARO, BARON, and OAN to built in observatories.
- Moved custom observatories location to same folder that contains AIJ_PREFS.txt file.
  - Windows: `C:\Users\USERNAME\.astroimagej`
  - Mac: `/Users/USERNAME/Library/Preferences/.astroimagej`
  - Linux: `~home/.astroimagej`
- Fixed a bug with the "Use previous apertures" option.
- Added option to customize observatories withing the Coordinate Converter.
