---
date: '2026-07-23'
versionNumber: '6.0.10.00'
description: ''
draft: false
---

### Includes
ImageJ 1.54s and Java 25

## General
  - The sharedskis external BJD conversion API has been revised to accommodate converting all JD values in a table to BJDs 
    in a single operation, which significantly speeds up the conversions (>10x).
  - The new API now also includes latitude and longitude of the observatory, making the BJD conversion slightly more precise.
  - The Windows AIJ Launcher is now signed, so Windows 11 Smart App Controller will now allow AIJ to open.
  - Measurements Tables now support strings in any cell of any column. 
    The key benefit here is that Keywords having string values may now be extracted from FITS headers as Multi-Aperture runs.
    It is not available now, but the next release will allow meridian flip times to be set based on a change in string value in a column (e.g. East changing to West).
  - The header editor search function now highlights matches on a per cell basis, rather than on a per row basis. Also, backwards searching is supported by \<Shift\> Enter (forward is non-shifted Enter), and both search directions are supported by two new arrow icons.

## New Features
  - Added Latitude and Longitude Keyword options to Multi-plot's Add Data panel 
    - This allows lat and long to be extracted from headers for automatic setup in the CC panel
    - After set-up the user will no longer need to hand set lat and long in CC as long as the associated key words stay the same
    - The inclusion of Lat and Long slightly improves the accuracy of the BJD time conversions by shared skies
    - Airmass and other values will now also be calculated correctly from the lat and long from the headers.
  - The Add Data panel now includes a cancel button in case lengthy conversions need to be aborted.

### Other
  - Catch an exception caused by Prism plate solving, which caused invalid FITS files to be produced. 
    Prism also includes a standard WCS solution, so the images will still be recognized within as having a valid WCS solution.
    If the files are resaved from AIJ, the non-standard Prism WCS-related header values will be lost or corrupted.


