---
title: 'Release 6.0.0.01'
date: '2025-11-06'
versionNumber: '6.0.0.01'
description: ''
draft: false
---

### Includes
ImageJ 1.54m1 and Java 25

## General
  - Nothing to report yet in this section.

## New Features

### Periodogram
  - Reordered list of periodogram data sources to measurements tables, Synthetic, and Current Image, so that measurements
tables show first in the pulldown list.
  - Added a menu item to Multi-plot for accessing the periodogram feature at `Multi-plot Main > Create periodogram...`.
### Image Display
  - When an image contains WCS coordinates, a right click in the image display now offers an option to display a catalog 
    FOV using the Swarthmore Aladin FOV tool.
### Coordinate Converter
  - The custom observatories list can now be enabled or disabled, edited, or opened directly from the `CC > Preferences menu`.

## Bug Fixes

### General
  - Fixed the `AIJ toolbar > Edit > Options` "Run single instance listener" enable / disable option.
  - Changed the "single instance listener" method of communication to speed up AIJ start-up.
  - Fixed opening of plotcfg when opening a `*measurements.fits.fz` file into AIJ.
  - Added a log message for cases when an attempt is made to open a multi-HDU fits file which does not contain a SCI HDU.
  - Added support of drag and drop of `*measurements.fits.fz` files onto Image Display and Multi-Plot panels
    (toolbar drag and drop was already supported).

### Coordinate Converter
  - Clarified some Aladin FOV option names.

### Image Display
  - Added support for extraction of PA from WCS and using it in Aladin FOV detector outline.

### Multi-Aperture
  - In elliptical aperture mode, fixed problems when attempting to use imported or existing apertures.
  - In elliptical aperture mode, fixed logging of elliptical aperture centroid failures.
  - In elliptical aperture mode with "Auto Fixed Apertures from multi-image T1 radial profiles" mode, fixed a problem where the 
    last image's measured eccentricity and angle are shown on the first image as T1.
